I'm excited to continue our
series in 2nd Timothy.
Uh, we have.
And next Sunday that we'll finish
up the book of 2nd Timothy.
Um, and then we will
have our Serve Sunday.
And I'll just go ahead and
make the announcement for that.
So serve Sunday.
We have a serve Sunday, once a month.
If you haven't been with us, um,
typically we try to do that once a month.
Um, and we're gonna be serving
the Y which means we'll come
and we'll meet here at 10:00 AM.
Um, it will look different.
You won't see anything set up.
We'll have some chairs.
Uh, we'll take some time
to kind of set up the day.
And then we're gonna have projects
all around the Y M C A of cleaning,
painting, cleaning a lot of the kids area.
Um, we're gonna be hauling off
some of the stuff that we've been
moving in and out for them that
they need to some different places.
But we asked the why.
We said, Hey, what better way to,
to start off the year than to serve
the organization in which we're
partnered with here in our community.
So that's why we, um, are gonna.
uh, doing that.
So that's two weeks from today.
Uh, 10:00 AM here.
We'll be serving the Y And one of the
things I love about the, the opportunity
to serve is when we serve, it's not just
meeting the needs of the Y but I feel like
that I connect really well with you all.
Like I get the opportunity to kind
of, what we say, rub elbows, right?
We're, we're on the ground cleaning
something and, and usually I'm like,
tell me a little bit of your story.
And, and because I don't get
much time to do that on Sundays,
and so I really thoroughly.
Serve Sundays.
And so make sure that you
come ready to do that.
Uh, but today as we jump into the
word, we're gonna be in second
Timothy chapter 4, um, and we'll
be covering the first eight verses
of 2nd Timothy chapter 4.
Um, and I wanna kind of start
off with this statement.
I usually come up with some kind
of question or pose something and
trying to kind of draw a point here.
So how many have you, and I'm assuming
all of you in this situation, has had a.
Say these things to you, or if you're
a parent, you've said 'em to your kids,
or they're getting ready to leave and
go do something, and typically you're
gonna warn them about something.
Let me, let me give you an example.
Your kids are getting ready
to walk across the street.
What do you tell 'em?
Somebody can answer.
What do you tell your kids?
Look both ways, and if there's multiple
kids, what do you tell 'em to do?
Hold hands.
So parents are doing that because
they're trying to, to protect or warn
their kids to make sure they watch out.
Um, I know for us, we, uh, at times
now our kids are at the ages of, uh,
13, 11, 9, and five, and so our 13 year
old can stay home and watch the kids.
And so usually when we leave and go,
like do a, a dinner out, which is
rare for us when we go doing dinner
out, me and my wife Brittany, um,
we'll tell our daughter Peyton.
Make sure they don't hurt themselves.
Like we're, we're like sitting down.
Look at us.
They can't jump off the furniture.
Um, and so there's things
like that that we'll say.
Um, I remember my mom and
I, I always love this.
Um, my mom's probably watching
the live stream today.
Um, When I was driving, she
would always tell me this,
watch out for the other driver.
I laugh because I'm like, she probably
should have said watch out for myself,
but she said, watch out for the
other driver, because the thing was
I couldn't control the other driver,
but I could obviously control watching
out for that driver and I'd look at
those statements as as important.
Things that we would tell our kids,
or our kids or, or our parents would
tell us in order to be prepared for
something or to, to make sure that
we're warned or ready for something.
Today we're gonna see Paul make a
couple of important statements to
Timothy, um, to, not to forget.
. Um, and, and just to kind of even think
about this, Paul is at the end of his
life, we're gonna even see this today
where Paul is basically saying, I'm
probably not gonna make it out of this.
And so these last couple of statements
that Paul's gonna make to Timothy,
art like warnings and, and saying,
Hey, you need to be prepared and
you need to be ready and these are
the things you need to focus on.
And so Timothy would hear these things
and go, okay, this is in important words.
So two things we're gonna talk about
today is these important statements.
Number one, to preach the word,
and number two, to fulfill your.
To preach the word and
to fulfill your ministry.
Um, and so these are gonna be statements
that Timothy had heard before.
He's, he's seen Paul fulfill in his
life, um, where he has preached the word,
where he has fulfilled his ministry.
Um, but these would be something
that Paul says, I wanna make
sure you don't forget this.
And again, go back to the example
of every single time our kids rock
across the road, we're telling 'em
to look both ways and hold hands.
We've told him a hundred times before,
but this is so critical every time,
cuz we don't want them to get hit.
We, Paul doesn't want Timothy to
miss what God has called him to do.
So just to kind of catch all of
us up, this book was wrote by
Paul to his true son in the faith
Timothy, that they wasn't his true
son, but it was his spiritual son.
And these were some of the last
words that Paul would pin to Timothy.
And Timothy was dealing with
false teachers in the church.
He was dealing with persecution.
Um, and we know Timothy was timid,
which means he would struggle at
times to be bold in his faith.
And so, because Paul knew that he wrote
this letter in such a way to be an
encourager and a reminder to Timothy
and really even the Church of Ephesus,
cuz this letter would be re wrote,
excuse me, read in, um, the church
as he would be pastoring that church.
So as Paul's giving this statement to
Timothy, I wanna encourage you that
Paul is speaking directly to us as well.
Don't look at this and say, Hey, this is
only to Timothy, this is to all of us.
Um, and so I want us to jump into
this text and then we can kind of just
start working through it together.
2nd
So let's jump in 2nd Timothy
chapter 4, starting in verse one.
Paul says, this is Timothy.
I solemnly charge you before God
and Christ Jesus, who is going
to judge the living and the.
And because of his appearing and
his kingdom, preach the word, be
ready in season and outta season
rebuke correct and encourage
with great patience and teaching.
For the time will come when people will
not tolerate sound doctrine, but according
to their own desires, will multiply
teachers for themselves because they have
an itch to hear what they want to hear.
They will turn away from hearing the
truth and will turn aside to myths.
But as for you, Timothy,
exercise, self-control and
everything, endure hardships.
Do the work of an evangelist
fulfill your ministry?
For I am already being poured
out as a drink offering, and the
time for my departure is close.
I have fought the good fight.
I have finished the race.
I have kept the faith there is
reserved for me, the crown of
righteousness, which the Lord.
, um, which the Lord, the righteous
judge will give me on that day.
And not only me, but to all those
who have loved his appearing.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we pray, Lord, as we jump
into your word, Lord, that your word
will transform our hearts and our
minds and will empower us to do what
we have been called to do, Lord, to
fulfill the ministry that you've called
us to do here at our, our city, and
our church, and in our life's Lord.
And so we pray this in your heaven name.
So whenever I read over this text, and
you may be doing the same thing, um,
I used to do this before I had started
to ministry and started preaching.
I would see texts like
this and I would go, great.
This text is for pastors and
teachers, and anytime a pastor, a
teacher preaches it, you guys get
to just sit there and say, amen.
You better do it right?
Amen.
You better figure out how to do.
. I would say that this text is definitely
true in the fact that it is speaking
to Timothy who was a pastor of a
church and gonna really be taking
the reins from Paul in that role.
So he's challenging him
in a couple of ways.
I believe though, as we begin to dive
into this text, I believe that Paul is
speaking to anyone who has the message of
the gospel anyone has, who has received
salvation from Jesus, who has the word of.
which means this, that every one
of us is responsible for what we
know, for what we've received.
And so as, as we're gonna see here
where Paul challenged Timothy to preach
the word and we'll learn what preach
isn't just this setting right here.
He challenged him to preach the
word and to fulfill his ministry.
I believe wholeheartedly that this
Texas challenging each one of us
to preach the word and to fulfill
the ministry that God has given us.
So, so please don't miss that part.
Yes, it is Speaking to church
leaders and you'll see me.
Pull out the text in that way, but
we'll also see how it applies to us.
And so as we see these first
couple of words in the text,
we see how important they are.
Paul didn't just say to Timothy,
Hey, if you want to, if you
feel like it, you should preach
the word when it's convenient.
He, he didn't say that.
He says this, I solemnly charge.
, when we think about this,
we think of this as passion.
When Paul is saying this to Timothy,
if, if, if he was in the same room
with Timothy, he would be doing
the same thing we do to our kids.
Look us in the eyes
when I'm talking to you.
I solemnly charge you Timothy
to do these things and, and, and
again, if we look in this text,
you don't see it wrote that way.
But I would believe if Paul had
bold, he probably would've bolded
and he would've caps letter.
These words I solemnly charge you.
This is how important when we see
this, these words are, and these
challenges are from Paul to Timothy
and I would say even to us today.
So why was this charge so serious?
Well, let's look in the first.
First.
He says, I charge you before God in
Christ Jesus, who's going to judge
the living and the dead because
of his appearing in his kingdom.
So when we think about this, God was
going to judge a couple of people.
Number one.
Timothy and those who know the
word of God based upon what
they did with the word of God.
So I'm gonna say this again.
God will judge those who have
received the word of God and what
they do with the word of God.
So I wanna start with that first
reason why is what we have been given
through faith in Christ is not meant
to be kept, but meant to be given away.
If we withhold that information from
other people, , then we're withholding
something that is such precious, not
only to us, but to the whole world.
And one day at the end of our
lives, we will be judged upon
that, not judged from a salvation.
Um, and you know, heaven and
hell situation, we go to heaven
because of what Christ did for us.
We're going to be judged upon our works.
And there's not a ton of clarity
on exactly what we will receive,
which is rewards for what we do
with the word of the go, the gospel
and what we don't, but we do.
That we will be judged upon that.
There's another part of this, and
this is the second part that I think
even hinders back to the first one.
Those who don't hear the
word of God will be judged.
So I want you to think about this.
I solemn you charge, charge you
before Christ Jesus who is the
judge of the living and the dead who
will be appearing in his kingdom.
Think about this.
Those who don't get the message of
the gospel will be judged one day
they'll be judged for their sins and
we're talking about heaven and hell.
We're talking about salvation and.
. And if we just like Timothy, had the
message and we don't proclaim it and
share it, we are now saying it's okay.
Those we know that don't know the gospel.
If we're not gonna share it,
we're not gonna share the truth.
It's okay if they go to hell.
No, I, I really think none of us
would truly think that, but at
times, that's the way we act and
we, we, we disregard the word of God
and the importance of sharing it.
And, and I say this, all the
reality of this is life or death.
This is life or eternal life or death.
So he's being very serious in this
situation because it is a serious topic
of understanding the importance of what
he was getting ready to share with him.
And so again, James three, one.
Speaking of teachers and preachers,
James Three Run re reminds People,
like me says, not many should become
teachers, my brothers, because you
know that you will receive a stricter
judgment and so you understand this.
My role as pastor is not to just preach
the truth, but to make sure that I am.
teaching the church to preach the truth.
And if I am allowing, I say
allowing, cuz obviously everybody
can make their own decisions.
If I'm allowing unfruitful teaching or
ungodly teaching to happen and I'm okay
with it, then I will be judged upon that.
And that's a, that's a high,
you know, wait for me at times.
But I understand the importance
of it and God's word reminds me.
. And so when we think about this, I think
this charge is a reminder to Timothy
of the responsibility and weight he has
with the truth that can change lives.
When you think about this, somebody name
a couple of jobs that you think are some
of the most important jobs in the world.
Name a couple of jobs that you
think are some of the most important
jobs in the whole wide world.
Go.
Teachers, doctors, what else?
Firefighters.
Wow.
We just had a family back here that's
literally teacher and firefighters.
So you guys are important to us.
Thank you.
Um, when you think about that, we
all have reasons why we say this.
I would tell you today, and this is
not about my position, this is about
what Paul says here in his word.
If we're talking about eternal salvation,
I believe teaching the word of God is
the most important position in the world.
Anybody, anybody with me on this?
And, and so I'm trying to say, this isn't
just my role, those who know the word of
God, teaching the word of God, if we're
talking about eternal salvation, eternal
uh, separation from God or not, I believe
that's the most important role because
everybody else's role, and again, not to
say that those aren't important is from
this side of heaven, but this is why this
is important, why he's talking about.
So based on this text, it
should be teachers, right?
So we're gonna kind of answer a couple
of questions as we walk through this.
Number one, what was
Timothy supposed to preach?
He was supposed to preach.
What was he supposed to preach?
Well, we know it's the word of God, right?
Anything else that's preached that is
not Christ-centered is false teaching.
But I wanna deal with the word
preach first, because again, this
is probably throwing everybody off.
I'm not a preacher.
You did not walk in here
saying you're a preacher.
Now, some of you may.
, and that's great, but you
may have not walked in here
thanking yourself as a preacher.
So what is a preacher?
A preacher is a herald.
It's a herald.
So let me just even describe what that
means so we can even be a little bit more.
It's one who makes an announcement
of the gospel loud and clear.
I'm gonna say this again.
A preacher is a herald, a person who makes
the gospel loud and clear, and I want to
define those two words, importantly loud.
Means it comes with words because
I think at times we wanna preach
the word by the way that we live.
And I think that's important because
our living should match our words.
But loud means that people
aren't questioning why you're
living the way you are.
You are professing why you're
Number two, clear.
I think this is so important, and this is
not a knock to any other version of the
Bible at all, but I'll just tell you this.
I spent so much time as a kid listening
to the word of God when I didn't underst.
in a version I didn't understand.
I just didn't, and this
is not a knock on K jv.
My parents are listening.
They love K jv.
There's some people in here that love
K jv, and I'm not knocking on that.
I'll just tell you this.
I didn't understand it as a kid.
I just didn't.
I think it's our role, our role to
take the truth of the gospel and
to make it clear, loud and clear.
A preacher is one that doesn't
just preach over your head.
It's one that literally breaks
it down into a practical
makes sense life application.
I think that's so important when we think
about what a preacher is a herald is, and
again, if you can go a little bit deeper,
a Harold has a message and a challenge.
To listeners to follow that message
that was handed down by the king.
So most of the time in the old days, a
Harold would be somebody was representing
the King's message, and when he
communicated it, people would listen
because they knew it was impactful
and it came directly from the king.
We have received a message from King
Jesus to make loud and clear, and
when we speak, people are to listen
so that God can transform their.
So we see what a preacher is.
It makes a little bit more sense that
that's not just my role, it's, it's
out all of our roles to be in this.
But then he says, to
preach the word, right?
The Bible, the truth of the gospel.
It's what the saved and the lost need.
It's what all of us needs
that transforms our life.
So then he goes on a little
bit more in verse two, and he
says, when should we preach?
When should we preach?
And he says this, preach the word,
be ready in season and out of.
. What does that mean?
I remember right after I had surrendered
ministry, I had an old man come up
to me and he says, Hey, you need to
be ready in season now this season.
And I'm like, it's fall.
What do you mean?
He didn't explain himself
and I just kept going on.
Uh, but the more, when I actually
found that it was in the word and
I understood a little bit more of
it, it makes a little bit of sense.
So in season would be this,
when you're used to being ready.
So I would say even your comfort zone
in season for me would be preaching
on Sundays in season for me would
be preaching or teaching in a small
group or around other Christians.
just truths.
That's a comfort zone.
That's in season.
That's when I'm expected.
I would say this outta season's a
little bit different outta season's.
The one that I think a lot of us probably
aren't prepared for outta season is when
the opportunity isn't favorable, when
it's scary, when it's difficult, when it's
people that don't know Jesus and you begin
to share and they begin to be critical or
bring up a question you don't know how to.
Just so you know, as a pastor, I
get challenged with questions I
don't know how to answer, and you
know what I say, I don't know.
And you know what I say, I'll go look.
I'll try to go figure it out.
It doesn't intimidate me anymore
because I'm okay with not knowing
everything because I'm not gonna know
everything, but I'm willing to to listen.
Right?
And so it's so important when we
understand the end season outta season,
I think the outta season is, it's
easier to make excuses in the outta
season rather than make opportunities.
I'll say that again.
It's easier to make excuses in the
outta season than it is to make
opportunities, which to mean is
to have the conviction to share.
Paul was the great
example to Timothy and us.
Paul shared in the temple easy in
season, but Paul also sh shared
in the ship that was shipwrecked.
He also shared in the prison
where he was chained to a guard.
Paul was ready in season and outta season.
He was challenged in Timothy to preach
the word in season and outta season.
So how was Timothy supposed to preach?
And this is gonna sound very familiar,
he says, to rebuke correct and encourage
with great patience and teaching.
If you'll remember from last week,
if you were here, um, in verse 16.
Uh, of chapter 3, it says this,
all scripture is inspired by God
and is profitable for teaching
rebuking and for correcting and
for training and righteousness.
So the word of God is there for
that, but the preacher's role is to
continue to fulfill that as well.
Right.
To to rebuke.
Correct.
And encourage a little bit about this.
Warren Weby puts it this way.
Maybe it makes a little
bit more sense this way.
We are supposed to preach with
conviction, warning, and a appeal.
I'll explain that a little bit
deeper, but there's another old
preacher that I don't have the name
of who this is, but he had said this.
He says, we should afflict the comfortable
and we should comfort the afflicted.
Now I wanna dive a little bit
deeper in that and this idea of if
there's conviction without remedy.
Then we add to people's burdens.
Let me just give you this
secret, great example.
If as a preacher or as a herald
or as a friend, you go to someone
and say, you're living in sin,
you're doomed and going to hell.
Good luck, conviction, without any
help, you just added to their burdens.
Okay?
Now let's flip the other side here.
If we encourage those, we ought to rebuke.
We are assisting them to sin,
which means this, Hey, it's okay.
You just keep doing, you.
You're great.
Just keep it up.
You're encouraging them, but
you're encouraging them to sin.
So there needs to be a
balance between this, right?
A balance between this.
So a person who teaches or preaches God's
word, I believe as we look at this, we
need to let the word of God do the work.
And this is where I go back to verse 16.
I wanna try to connect these two
pieces as much as I can, because
it really kind of was an aha moment
to me as a teacher, as a person who
shares the word of God to others.
Think about this.
If the word of God is inspired and is
profitable for teaching rebuking and
correcting on its own, then as a preacher,
my role is to preach the gospel, the
truth of the word, and get out of the way.
See, I think at times, and you guys may
do the same thing, we think when we share
truth, we have to add something to it.
I think this is really just Paul saying
take the word, which is already truth,
which is inspired by God, which is
there to correct rebuke and encourage.
Let it do its work.
So I prayed.
I prayed yesterday.
I prayed today, and I'm gonna pray
every day forward that I preached the
word and I get out of the way because
it's not about me, it's about him.
It's about his power and his abilities,
and the reason why, I'm just telling
you, I'm, I'm in the seat with you.
I don't share as much as I should because
I'm afraid I'm gonna say the wrong thing.
I'm afraid I'm not gonna
have the right answers.
And that's what I bring to the table.
God already brought
everything to the table.
We just have.
The call to go share it.
Isaiah 55 11 says this, and
this is what encourages me.
So my word that comes from my mouth
will not return to me empty, but it
will accomplish what I please and
prosper and what I send it to do.
When you share God's word,
it does not return void.
It does not return void.
So I wanna kind of go back
over these words because
everybody wasn't here last week.
So when he says, as a
teacher, as a preacher, to re.
. Most of us think that is so bad.
That's judgemental.
All we're doing is judging people.
When we're rebuking people with the word
of God, let me try to encourage you with
a different way of thinking about it.
Think about it this way.
When we are rebuking people, it's
really disappointing out where
people have not only fallen short,
but where they've missed out on
experiencing God's best for their.
I, I've, I've asked this several
times to many of you, and I will
continue to ask other people, do
you want God's best for yourself?
God's intended plan for your life to
experience the greatest thing ever?
If that is true, you want that for
other people, and if you do, you
will rebuke or you will point out
where maybe they're missing that
opportunity to experience God's best.
Then there's the correcting piece, because
again, if we rebuke them and we don't
give them any, , what good does it do?
So when we correct, we point
in the right direction.
If somebody's going the wrong direction,
and you know it, I'm pretty sure you
guys are nice people, you're not gonna
keep laughing and pointing and saying,
ha ha ha, you're gonna, Hey, did you know
you're, you turned left rather than right?
I don't know.
That's what I would say correcting
is, is really helping people get
back on track to point them to Jesus,
to point them to the grace and the
mercy and forgiveness that God.
But then this, there's word encouragement.
I love the word encouragement.
I really do.
And when I started studying about him,
it's to strengthen and to comfort people.
And even if you dive a little bit
deeper, to encourage us to inspire
someone to accept Jesus, and to
follow him, to accept his forgiveness.
And even if you look at the word
encouragement, and I'm gonna share another
quote with you, which I've shared before.
Think about encouragement this way
when you're encouraging people.
You're encouraging them,
you're pleading with them.
You're begging with them not to reject
Christ, but to accept his hope and
his forgiveness and to experience
the life that God has for him.
I've read this before, but
I wanna share it again.
Charles Spurgeon made the
statement and I believe.
Wholeheartedly that we will
be a church that does this.
If sinners be damned, at least let
them leap to hell over our bodies.
And if they perish, let them
perish with our arms about their
knees, imploring them to stay.
And if hell must be filled, at least
let it be filled with the teeth of
our exertions and let no one go there.
Unw warned or un prayed for.
That statement by Charles Burgeon
is a, a statement of encouragement.
It's a statement of desperation for those
around us, not that we are judging them.
I, I need you to hear this
statement when we rebuke.
And correct.
It's not outta judgment.
It's outta mercy because you don't
wanna see them, miss the opportunity
to experience a living savior, a
God that loves you now, and a God
that wants to love you for eternity
and spend eternity with you.
That is the heart of why we
preach the word, even as regular
day Christians, cuz again, don't
just think that this is my rule.
Why do we share the truth of the gospel?
Why do we share what we know?
Because we want to see people know Jesus.
because if we've known Jesus,
then we want others to know Jesus.
And he says this, he continues on right.
He says, to rebuke correct and encourage
with great patience and teaching
great patience is long suffering.
Long suffering.
Think about this.
Sometimes you don't see immediate results.
I would say this.
My wife married me and I was not a
believer and she was probably not a
smart thing to do, not suggesting.
But she was patient with me.
She wanted me to know Jesus.
She wanted me to go to church, but
I didn't go and I rejected Christ.
But she was patient with me and
she was long suffering, and I'm so
thankful she didn't give up on me.
I, I, I think of stories that I've heard
in this church where we've heard a couple
of families come up and tell us, Hey,
Ben and I usually make this statement.
We were waiting on you on the other side
of your obedience to move from Oklahoma
and to plan a church and to spend your
life committed to sharing the gospel.
And when we hear that, I remember the
moments of going, nothing's happening.
We're sharing, we're inviting.
Nobody's showing up, nobody's
life's being changed.
We, we suffered long to
experience life change.
That's why we can't just rebuke
correct and encourage and
expect in an instant change.
There are some people that will change.
There are some people that will give
their lives to Christ like that, but
there are many that we are going to
have to suffer long and be patient with
because we care so much about them.
And that is difficult,
but it is rewarding.
Maybe one day someone will say the
same thing to you because you are
patient and you are committed to
rebuking correcting and encourag.
He also says to teach, right?
And what that means is to be
consistent, to teach the word of God.
You'll even hear this word doctrine,
and a lot of times doctrine confuses
the heck outta me because it's like
I don't think in big words and deep
theological things, and that may not
sound deep to you because it makes sense.
Doctrine is just the truth of God.
It's really just the truth of God.
So teach God's truth, if you have His
word, it's easy to teach it simple enough.
So what's the reason why Paul
would give this challenge to
Timothy to teach the word?
Why would he give this challenge
to us to teach the word?
The next couple of verses are important.
Three and four says this, for the time
will come when people will tolerate
sound doctrine will not tolerate
sound doctrine, but according to their
own desires, will multiply teachers
for themselves because they have an
itch to hear what they want to hear.
They will turn away from hearing the
truth and will turn aside to myths.
I'll just tell you this, you know what
hurts a pastor's heart the most is when
you see somebody walk away from the
church, walk away from their faith.
Uh, I've been to ministry long enough
where I've seen that, um, we, we had
a a, a, it's crazy how this works.
Somebody who deeply invested in me
in Britain early on in our ministry,
I believe was a critical part to me
coming to faith in Christ, not short,
after I gave my life to Christ for
into ministry, he left the church.
Wouldn't answer text messages,
wouldn't answer phone calls.
So saw him two, three years later,
one day at a funeral and uh, I broke
down and I'm like, what happened?
And he had wrestled through a lot
of things that nobody knew about.
and he was struggling and that broke me
because even to this day, I don't fully
know if he's ever come back to the church.
Um, and, and I think about this
instance, when we look at people
that fall away and they fall away
for various reasons, I don't believe
his was because of false teaching.
I think there was a lot of brokenness
that he didn't really have anybody
to, to walk through that with.
And I'm, I'm hurt over that, uh, for him.
Um, but I, I think of this as, as
this instance though specifically,
are people who knew the.
but didn't like it.
So let me give you some examples here.
Paul says that there were people that
were basically fed up with sound teaching
that contradicted their lifestyle, right?
They contradicted their lifestyle.
I wanna live this way.
God's word says this.
I'm gonna go find somebody else
That affirms my lifestyle so
that I feel good about myself.
I, I'm just telling you, if, if you
think that that's a good thing, why did
our parents, at times, we wanted to do
things as, as kids, but our parents.
Tell us truth and they would say,
no, you should not do this, and,
and we didn't want to because we
wanted to do what we wanted to do.
Many times they were saving us.
They were protecting us from
something we weren't aware of.
Also, as he says, they'll begin
to find people who will not rebuke
correct or encourage them, but again,
support their lifestyle of sin.
They'll have an itch to hear what
they want to hear, and they'll go
find somebody that can scratch.
right?
Let me just give you some practical
examples, and usually you won't see these
words clearly come out in a ministry role
that's supporting people who they, who
are, are obviously veering from the truth,
but typically this is what they're saying,
Hey, living a lifestyle how you want
during the week is okay, as long as you
come to my church and as long as you give.
If you do those two things, I really
don't care what you do during the week.
Now, you probably have never been a part
of a church that says that from the.
, but basically they communicate
it through their services and
the way that they do things.
Let me just give you another one.
Hey, we're all sinners.
God's grace covers them.
All right?
So just keep on sinning.
It doesn't matter how you live.
Just keep going.
I mean, God's gonna forgive you right now.
I would agree.
We're all sinners and God forgives
us, but he is also there to
rebuke correct and encourage.
To experience God's best.
This last one may stick a
little bit more to home.
Hey, don't study the word of God.
That's my role.
That's a pastor.
That's my role as a priest.
You leave that to me.
I'll tell you how to think.
And for some of you that may be easier
because you don't have to do all the
labor of being in the word I tell you.
If you ever hear that from me,
smack me and kick me outta the pulp.
The word of God is meant
for all of us to get.
Every one of us to have a personal
relationship with Christ through his word.
My role is to be a leader in helping
encourage you get in the Word as a church,
we inspire hope by helping you discover
God's purpose for your life through a
relationship with Jesus, not through
your relationship with me to Jesus.
You need to know that.
So these are just some of the things
that these people were falling away to.
As we look back in chapter 3 of
Timothy and the first nine verses, these
were people who were living the selfish
life, who cared more about themselves
and their desires than God's desires.
Now, I, I need to tell you this, and
somebody probably needs to hear this.
Jesus died to set you free from
sin not to continue to live in it.
When we are choosing these other
ways of life, we want to continue
to live in it, and Jesus came to
set you free from that burden.
Yes, everyone of us is a
center of need of a savior.
, but he did not say that he was gonna
save us and leave us where we're at.
He said he was gonna
save us to transform us.
And I'll just give you one more
example before I move on here.
I think about my kids at times and you
guys hear so many examples from my kids.
My kids will get sick and there's
medicine, they need to make them
well, but they fight me because
they don't like it cuz it's nasty.
It's the, the bubble gum flavor they
don't like or whatever, but it's nasty.
They don't want it, and they
fight me and they kick and scream.
As a parent, how smart would it be for
me to say, no, you don't have to take it.
Continue living in your sickness.
You'll be okay.
Is that not what the church's role is?
That not what the word of God's role is?
To, to be able to bring
something that is there to heal.
. And yes, at times the people in
which you share with will kick
and scream and will begin to say,
oh, you're just one of those.
Jesus thumpers you.
You just want to push the, your
truths on, and you just wanna be no.
And like, no, I understand
where you've been and you don't
have to continue to be there.
I, I'm telling you that's different
view than sometimes what we think
of when we share truth with other.
So I'm gonna move on, and I know I'm
running outta time here, but the second
challenge that Timothy was given, and
we were given not only to preach the
word, but to fulfill your ministry.
I want you to key in on that
word, your ministry, and we're
gonna expand on that even more.
And I think that's so important.
He says to fulfill your ministry.
So let's look at this, but as for you,
exercise self-control and everything.
Endure hardship, do the work of
an evangelist and fulfill your.
He's telling Timothy to not
get distracted by all the false
teachers around him trying to stop
him from fulfilling his ministry.
I think at times, cuz I need to hear this.
I catch myself looking around at
other ministries and wondering
what God is doing there.
Why isn't God doing that here?
Why?
Why is God using me differently
than God's using them?
And you know what God is
telling me all the time.
Fulfill your ministry, Ben, yours.
Me and Megan just had this
conversation, fulfill your ministry.
I think that that is so powerful.
That word your because Yes,
and I want to explain this.
Every one of us has a ministry.
To follow Jesus.
This is, this is everybody.
Follow Jesus right to, to not only follow
him, but to serve in such a way that
glorifies him and serves others, to invite
others into a relationship with Jesus.
These are all general fulfilling
ministries, but I believe God
has called every person in this
room, every person in the world to
fulfill the ministry in their life.
God has gifted.
. God has given you a story and
it may be a difficult story.
You need to know this.
God has sometimes given some of you
difficult stories, but he's given you
that story to fulfill your ministry.
Not my ministry, not mad.
And Amanda's ministry, not
anybody else is in here.
Your ministry, and I'm just gonna
tell you, if you wanna know what your
ministry is, it starts with God's.
To give you direction and
comfort in your ministry.
For Timothy's, it was persecution.
It was his, what we know, his
personality of being timid.
That wasn't Paul's issue.
Paul was bold.
Paul's was a little bit
of a different ministry.
Yet he fulfilled it and we're gonna
see how he shows that example.
And he says this, and I think
this is so important, he says, to
exercise self-control in everything.
Why did Timothy need to exercise self?
What this means in every situation,
we need to be aware of one, those
around us who are trying to distract
us from fulfilling our ministry.
But number two, there are people
watching, and this is not for you
to act perfect, but this is for you
to know the responsibility that you
have as a Christ follower for people
to see you exercise self-control.
Let me give you a great example.
Yesterday, I'm in here helping set
up all along with my kids and a
pipe balls and hits me in the head.
I think I might have a concussion.
I don't know.
I, my head hurts in that moment.
I'm telling you, not many years ago,
I would've probably cussed, kicked
those things and got mad at my kids,
even though my kids didn't do it.
That's just me.
But the moment that thing hit me in the
head, I'm like, I have kids around me.
I also.
That wasn't anybody's fault.
This is a freak accident.
I'm not gonna blame God.
I'm not gonna cuss.
I'm not gonna kick it.
Anger's not gonna help me.
I mean, seriously, all those thoughts are
running through my head, while my head
is pounding, self-control and everything.
Am I perfect?
Trust me, ask Brittany, my
wife, she'll tell you I'm not.
That was just one where I
did exercise self-control.
But it's important because there are
people around us that are watching.
Number two, he says, endure hardship.
Endure hardship.
Those who call themselves religious.
Will claim that if you're religious
enough, you won't endure hardship.
But Paul's telling you, you will
endure hardship in the midst of
trying to fill your ministry.
You will.
And so he is saying,
endure, make it through.
You got this.
And again, Paul set the great example.
He says, do the work of an evangelist.
And I think this is so important, just so
you know, when it comes to fulfilling our.
we can get so individualized in
when we think about this, lemme
just give you a great example.
Whenever I'd first given my life
to Christ, I began to dive into
the word and I began to think
about how the word applied to me.
And again, that was good.
But over time, if the ministry only
stayed focused on me, I missed the
greatest call that God had given me to
fulfill my ministry, which is demean,
to share the word of God, to to share
with those who don't know Christ.
And with with Timothy, this would be.
There's gonna be those in the
church that question your ministry.
Timothy, don't get caught up in all
these meetings with them because there's
people out there that need Jesus.
Do the work of an
evangelist, share the gospel.
Go be focused on this.
And I would say this, the burden
for the lost should be an important
part of the ministry of the church.
And in three weeks, we're gonna
spend four weeks together as a church
talking about practical evangel.
I've had a burden to be able to discuss
this topic with the church because
a lot of times evangelism scares us.
It scares me, but we're gonna look at
how the word of God teaches us how to
be practical and how we share the gospel
and how we do the work of an evangelist.
Then the last one again, he says,
to fulfill your ministry, and again,
don't miss that idea of the word.
Don't get distracted by looking across
the room and comparing your ministry
or your ministry roles to others.
I need to say this again.
Your call to fulfill your ministry
is not about comparing yourself
to the person sitting next to you.
God has placed them where he
has placed them for their call.
Now, you can encourage each other
in the general places of ministry,
but at times, I'm telling you, you,
you're gonna start feeling like
you're more spiritual than somebody.
Because of what you're doing.
And some of you, and I get it,
some of you gonna feel like you're
not spiritual enough because you
don't have somebody else's gifts.
Guys, I spend the majority of
my ministry time around way more
people that are gifted to me.
I mean, what was it?
Jason was telling me something
I think, I don't remember.
I think it was him telling me something
about how something that works with tech
and I swore he talked to me in a foreign.
And I went, go fulfill your ministry.
Like that means seriously, like I'm
not gonna compare myself to Jason.
It doesn't make sense to me and it's
not what God's calling us to do.
He says, fulfill your ministry.
And I love this.
Paul gives an example of how he fulfilled
his ministry in verses six three.
I promise I'm landing the plane.
He says, for I'm already being poured out.
It's a drink offer.
And the time for my departure is close.
I've fought the good fight.
I've finished the race.
I've kept the faith there is reserved
for me, the crown of righteousness,
which the Lord, the righteous
judge will give me on that day.
And not only me, but to all those
who have loved his appearing.
Let me just kind of break these down
verse by verse pretty quickly here.
Number one, basically in verse six,
Paul saying this from Philippians 1
21 to live his Christ and to die his.
It makes confusing sense
to you as it is to me.
At times.
He says, I'm being poured
out as a drink offering.
You'd have to go to Old Testament
times to understand the idea behind
the purpose of a drink offering to
the Lord and a sacrifice of that.
But basically what Paul's
saying is I poured out my life
for the sake of the gospel.
He lived in a such a way, and he
preached in such a way that he
poured out his life for the sake
of others, for the sake of others.
Then he goes on from there in verse seven.
He says basically that he fought
the fight, right, the good fight.
He fought to fulfill his ministry.
I'll just tell you this, in order
to fulfill your ministry, it
will not happen outta nowhere.
You will have to fight for it.
You will have to stretch yourself.
You'll have to say yes to things you
never thought you would ever say yes to.
I I, I, I was, again, I was sharing
this with Megan just a little bit ago.
Whenever I started to ministry,
I didn't really know what God was
calling me to other than I just wanted
to do whatever it was for the Lord.
And you know what I told my pastor, if
you ask me to do anything, I'll do it.
I'll do it.
And the reason why I didn't want
the excuse of that, I had a choice.
because when I had a choice, my flesh
would say, Nope, that's too much.
And I'm just telling you the reason
why I'm preaching today is because
my pastor, two weeks later, after
a sermon ministry put me up on
the stage, scared me to death.
I preached one of the worst sermons
I've ever preached and he didn't put
me back up there for three years.
But you know what he did?
I'm just telling you that's how bad I
was and I'm probably still working on it.
Right.
For three years.
You know what he did?
He didn't just say, Hey, you're
gonna sit on the sidelines.
He let me preach on Sunday nights
cause it's a smaller crowd and more
people that would just forgive.
. Um, then he gave me like a, a Wednesday
night group again, another group
of people that I kind of just cut
my teeth on learning how to teach.
And then I taught small groups
and, and what ended up happening
was I just put myself out there
in order to fulfill the ministry
that God had called me to fulfill.
I had to fight for it.
I had to fight against
the flesh of saying no.
So when somebody asked you to
do something, say, You won't
regret it cuz God has to show.
I always tell people this when I said
yes in those moments I would always
say, God, you're going to show up cuz
I'm not going to like, I'm just not.
And he would because that's who God is.
So again, Paul was an example of that.
He didn't throw in the
towel when it got tough.
He kept the faith.
And I love this faith is seeing what
God sees even though we don't see it.
I want you to think about this.
Paul spent most of his time
in prison getting persecuted.
He was sowing the seat of the
gospel many times and he had no
clue what the return would be.
He had no clue what the return would be.
I even think about this.
Paul wrote most of the New Testament,
and I don't believe he understood fully
that that word would be here today and
that millions and probably billions of
lives have been changed by his letters.
But you know what I do know
whenever I see Paul is he kept
the faith, which means this.
In writing and pinning those letters, and
by sharing the gospel and being a model
for Christ, he in faith experienced this.
He knew what he was doing
was going to transform lives.
I'm telling you at times you need to
know that faith is sometimes the only
thing that will hold you together
because you believe God sees the
result of your faithfulness in the.
And if you can see what God sees, oh
man, you'll start celebrating now and
then one day you'll be me sitting up
here preaching to a group of people
when I was in my home wondering, is
anybody gonna show up to this church?
Okay, it can happen.
I've seen my brother-in-law give us
life to Christ in a car after a G,
after we went to the gym when I'd
shared the gospel with him many times
before and I didn't ever think he
was gonna give his life to Christ.
And I just happened to present the gospel
one day after the gym and he's like,
yeah, there's nothing that would ever
stop me from giving my life to Christ.
And I'm like, what'd you?
I'm telling you, faith is so important.
Paul's faithfulness.
He had fought the fight, right?
He had finished the race.
He'd kept the faith.
Oh, I'm gonna encourage you.
We need to look at Paul's example
of fulfill in his ministry and
see that we have a hope in ours.
I think that we need to take Paul's.
and I think we need to see it as well.
I believe God is going to transform the
city, this church, your life and my life
for the sake of the gospel, for the good
of our lives, to experience God's best
to to see so many people be changed.
And you may struggle to see it now,
but I pray as you seek the word of
God, as you fill your ministry, that
you begin to see it now and celebrate
now, and then one day look back and
go, Aw man, God is, God is good.
And he says this, this is what I love.
He says there at the end of my
life, again, at the end of Paul's
life, he knew it reserved for him
was the crown of righteousness
that the Lord would give him.
Paul fulfilled the goal that he had in
Philippians three 14 where he says, I've
pursued as my goal the prize promised
by God's heavenly call in Christ Jesus.
And I think the cool part here
is that Paul says the last
statement, don't miss this.
And only not only.
But to all those who loved disappearing,
let me just translate that for you.
To all those who have preached the
word and fulfilled their ministry will
experience the same thing, the crown of
righteousness at the end of their life.
Ah, man, if that's not a call to
surrender, if that's not a call to
surrender your life to Jesus, if that's
not a call to surrender, to preaching,
being a herald of whatever of the word of
God that you have to those surrounding,
if that is not a call to fulfill
your ministry, I don't know what is.
I don't know what is.
I am excited.
About what God has allowed
each one of us to be a part of.
I'm a small part of this, but all
of us are the body of Christ working
together to fulfill the ministry that
God's called this church to fulfill.
I love it.
Isn't that cool?
So we're gonna head into a
time of invitation and I, I
communicate over and over again
what is the purpose of invitation.
It's a time to reflect.
It's a time to say, Hey God, I need
to take whatever you have taught me.
And I need to accept it.
I, I, I need some time to, to ask God
and say, Hey God, how do I, how do I get
the confidence to preach the word God?
How?
How do I fulfill my ministry?
This is the time to seek the Lord.
And I wanna make this statement
because I think it's such a challenge.
You may see the ability to
preach the word or to fulfill
your ministry is so far away.
You don't even know how to experience it.
Small steps.
Done consistently over time
or produce big results.
Don't leave today before you
commit to taking one small step.
One small step, then my challenge
for you is to tell somebody.
I'll just tell you this, I probably
fulfilled zero of zero of the things
that I've committed to that I've never
told anybody about because when I'm
not accountable, nobody knows that I.
But my challenge for you to tell
somebody, what is God calling you to do?
Is he calling you to
give your life to Jesus?
And if he is, then today, commit
to repenting of your sins, turning
to the Lord and saying, yes, Jesus.
I want to experience
God's best of my life.
I don't know what it
is you do and God does.
So commit to today during invitation
number two, tell someone, okay.
Number three, if there's anything
that I can do to help you fulfill
the calling in your life, I want
to help you and not only me.
Here's the cool part.
We have a lot of people in this
church that want to come alongside
you cuz this is not just my church.
This is our church.
I love serving alongside each one
of you, and I have loved seeing so
many of you fulfill your ministry.
There are some of you.
To have another step to take
to fulfill your ministry.
May God use you.
May God use us as a church to do great
mighty things because of what he's
done for us on the cross and what he
has done today by using his word to
convict, to correct and to encourage.
Let's pray.
Lord Jesus, you are God and we are not.
And Lord, if I know anybody in this,
Maybe they're a lot like me, Lord.
I hear the message today and
I'm probably scared, Lord.
I hear the message today and, and
honestly, Lord, there's days where
I hear messages like this today
and I don't even know what to do.
Lord may today, during invitation, you
bring clarity to those who don't know
the next step they need to take in
order to, to proclaim the word or to
fulfill their ministry or to accept.
God, I pray for those who may be scared
or nervous about what it means to
fulfill the ministry in their lives.
Lord, may they remember your word
again, that you have not given them
a spirit of fear, but a spirit of
power and of love and of sound.
Mind God, I pray for those in this.
That are looking for encouragement.
God, may they get it from your word.
May they get it from your
people here in this church.
Lord, may they get it from me, Lord,
that they can do exceedingly, abundantly,
more than you can ask or think.
Lord, you are God.
And because we believe this,
we are here today to meet you.
And Lord, I pray that
we have met you through.
So, Lord, during this time of invitation,
Lord, I pray that if anybody does not know
you, the Lord today, they will stand up.
They will go find me in the
back and they will say, today,
I need to give my life to Jesus.
Lord, I pray if there's someone in
this room that needs to surrender to
ministry, they wanna proclaim that
to the rooftops, Lord, I pray that
they come find me, and today they
can publicly commit to that ministry.
Lord, I just prayed that if just.
Someone is just wanting to take that
next step, Lord, that you meet them
where they are and that you bring
friends around them to help them do that.
Lord, may you be glorified in all that
we commit to in this time of invitation.
We pray this in your heavenly name, Jesus.
Amen.
Let's take some time.